I was inspired to write the book thief
because of just memories of sitting in
my kitchen when I was a kid hearing
stories my parents told me and it was
like we're all glued to our seats
hearing stories of bombings and getting
up out of the ground out of the bomb
shelters in Munich and in Austria there
was one day when my mother heard a noise
she was six years old and she heard this
noise from the main street and she ran
with the other kids and they thought it
would be cattle coming down the main
street of this village where she lived
but it wasn't Cavill it was people and
there was an old man who couldn't keep
up he was staggering over the road and
and it was a teenage boy who went into
his house got a piece of bread and gave
it to this man who fell to his hands and
knees grabbed him by the feet and all
grabbed him by the ankles and cried into
his feet thanking him and then a soldier
came ripped the bread away and whipped
the old man for taking it and then
chased the boy and beat him to the
ground and whipped him for giving him
the bread and it was that story that
really inspired the book I think because
on one hand you've got pure beauty which
is the boy giving the bread and on the
other you've got pure destruction which
is that you know the soldier doing what
he did you bring those two things
together and you've got humans and what
we're capable of and so I heard stories
like that stories of my dad not wanting
to go to Hitler Youth and people who
didn't want to hang their flags in their
windows and I thought I'm going to write
about those people I wanted to write a
100-page novella and it just turns into
a book you know I got to be carried away
and it turns into a book that was a bit
longer and and the book that now just
means everything to me I decided to use
death as the narrator of the book purely
because there's that expression that war
and death are like best friends so I
thought who better to tell this story
set in Nazi Germany because death was
everywhere at that time and place and I
thought well what's the opposite of this
all-powerful death I thought are
vulnerable
earth what if death was afraid of us
what if death was haunted by humans and
that was the big question that was the
breakthrough because I thought not only
is it unexpected and makes sense as well
because death is on hand to see all of
the terrible things humans do to each
other and I realized what the book was
about at that point and it was trying to
find beautiful moments in an ugly time
probably the most asked question about
the book when it comes to where should
this sit on the bookshelf is is this a
young adult book or isn't that awful I
just think well I didn't sit down to
write a good young adult bore googled a
topic I really tried to write someone's
favorite book the other thing to
remember is I thought nobody would read
the book yeah 500 page book set in Nazi
Germany than the raiders death you think
how do you recommend back to your
friends I thought no one's going to read
this I thought well I might as well do
this exactly how I want to do it and
follow my own vision for the book and
write in exactly the style I want that's
when it really took off so I think half
of writing a book is just forgetting
that there's even a world that exists
beyond the book to be a writer i think
has nothing to do with being published
in a lot of a lot of ways if a ray of
light came out of the sky and said to me
all right your next book will never see
the light of day it won't be published
you won't be paid a cent nobody will
ever read it and the question is would I
still write the ball and the answer is
definitely yes and that's what makes me
write my next book knowing that that is
true for me writing should be fun and it
should be should be like you can play
with words and and I think that's what I
like most about writing is just playing
with words and and getting a sense that
north or is enjoying writing and just
having fun with it and playing a little
as well